## Scriptable Objects Architecture
**ScriptableObject is** a serializable Unity class that allows you to store large quantities of shared data independent from script instances. Using Scriptable Objects makes it easier to manage changes and debugging. You can build in a level of flexible communication between the different systems in your game, so that overall, it’s more manageable to change and adapt things as you go along, as well as reuse components.

**Game Archi­tec­ture** with Script­able Objects focuses on making modular, data-driven, editable game systems while avoiding (and trash talking) crutch patterns like singletons.Using Script­ableOb­ject based classes, you can easily edit and store refer­ences to data from prefabs in a scene. However, Script­ableOb­jects are not constrained to just static data. You can change data from one prefab and read it from another. This allows for the exchange of state between prefabs without the need for a rigid connec­tion between them.A similar pattern can be used to construct an event system. Scene objects can add them­selves to a list on a Script­ableOb­ject based asset to indicate that they are listening for a certain game event. Later, a different scene object can ​“raise” the event, looping through the list and notifying all listening objects. Again, this pattern removes rigid connec­tions between different systems in the game.Game Archi­tec­ture with Script­able Objects covers these topics and more, with a ton of simple code samples, practical demos, and bad program­ming jokes.

> *(Words by Ryan Hipple)*
